# Quant_Fin-BIZ-BETZ-Team_Spring_2024
  ### Hello and Welcome!
  ### This repo aims to hold all of our projects and assignments for The City College of New York's quantitative finance class.
  ### Collaborators:
  ####  - Steven Fernandez
  ####  - MD Miah
  ####  - Nymul Islam

  ## Project #1: [Portfolio Analysis](https://github.com/CCNY-Analytics-and-Quant/Quant_Fin_CCNY-BIZ-BETZ_Spring_2024_SF_MM_NI/blob/main/Portfolio_Analysis_Project/port_analysis_clean.ipynb)
  
  This project aims to conduct a risk analysis of a seven-stock portfolio against major market indices, specifically the S&P500 (SPY). The requirements for this project involves creating detailed Pandas tables, showcasing constituent stock risk analysis and portfolio risk metrics against the S&P500 ETF. These tables encompass various factors such as volatility, beta, drawdowns, total return, correlation, covariance, tracking errors, and Sharpe ratio. Additionally, a correlation matrix is generated to illustrate the relationships between the equal-weighted portfolio, ETFs, and individual stocks. Pandas, Numpy, Seaborn and Matplotlib libraries are used in this repository to research and incorporate relevant formulas and finance theory into the Python code to execute the project effectively.

  ## Project #2: [Efficient Frontier Simulation](https://github.com/CCNY-Analytics-and-Quant/Quant_Fin_CCNY-BIZ-BETZ_Spring_2024_SF_MM_NI/blob/main/efficient_frontier/efficient_frontier_clean.ipynb)

  This project aims to implement the Markowitz Efficient Frontier theory by selecting a basket of seven assets, calculating their individual risk/return values, combining them into the efficient frontier, and plotting the results. The Markowitz theory dictates that investors seek portfolios that maximize expected return for a given level of risk or minimize risk for a given level of expected return. The efficient frontier represents the set of mean-variance combinations where, for a given risk, no other portfolio offers a higher expected return. The requirements include choosing assets with significant historical data, retrieving daily price data for the previous 2 years, calculating mean, variance, and correlation matrix, computing the efficient frontier and optimal weights, and graphing the results using Matplotlib or Seaborn libraries. The output includes optimal weightings, the efficient frontier, and correlation matrix charts. In this python code a Monte-Carlo and regression simulation is used to derive the efficient frontier, adhering to the principles of the with Markowitz Efficient Frontier Theory. The efficient frontier model is modularized using a Python class for improved organization and functionality.

  ## Project #3: [Quant Model Price Momentum Factors](https://github.com/CCNY-Analytics-and-Quant/Quant_Fin_CCNY-BIZ-BETZ_Spring_2024_SF_MM_NI/blob/main/berry_cox_price_momentum_port_gen/Berry_Cox_price_momentum_factors_clean.ipynb)

  This project involves utilizing Berry Cox's price momentum factors to construct a long-short portfolio and backtesting the algorithm over a 5-year period to evaluate its performance. Alpha factors are quantifiable metrics used to identify sources of alpha generated by assets. The primary objective is to select assets for the portfolio based on Berry Cox's list of alpha factors and conduct backtesting to assess the algorithm's efficacy. The requirements include choosing an ETF with a minimum of 100 assets, retrieving historical data, calculating price momentum factors, computing monthly z-factor scores to normalize the factors, identifying long and short baskets, creating a backtest, and charting monthly portfolio returns, long picks vs. short picks, and cumulative portfolio returns against the ETF. The project was further expanded to include the Markowitz Efficient Frontier Theory, the code previously used to build the efficient frontier with the Monte-Carlo and regression simulation was converted into python script. The Python script file was then imported into the price momentum factors model file to execute and determine the optimal weightings of the portfolio of long-short stock ticker selections identified by the price-momentum factors. This allowed us to create a optimized portfolio that maximizes expected returns for a given level of risk, leveraging the selection of stocks from the price-momentum factors. 
  
  The optimal portfolio underwent backtesting to validate the performance of both the selection of stocks and the optimal allocation of weights within the portfolio.